This directory is a copy of parts of the util directory of the
X.V11R2, less the X-dependant programs.

The following documentation was stolen from the X11R2 release notes,
hand-converted from nroff, and rearranged slightly to fit the Kerberos
distribution; note that most of these programs include some
documentation in their source directories.

- util/imake/

This directory contains the most important build utility.  The `imake'
program is used to generate the appropriate machine dependent
Makefiles from machine independent descriptions called Imakefiles.  It
uses the C preprocessor so that symbolic names and macro functions may
be defined.  It has its own handcrafted Makefile, and a special
program for determining the initial compilation flags.  If you are
porting the release to a new machine, you may need to edit
`util/imake/ccflags.c' to add any compiler flags that your machine
will need when compiling `imake'.  `Imake' will be built automatically
as part of ``make world.''

- util/imake.includes/

This somewhat obscure directory contains the configuration files that
`make' uses in generating the various Makefiles in the release.
Before doing ``make world,'' check the
`util/imake.includes/Imake.tmpl' and
`util/imake.includes/<machine>.macros' files to make sure that they
are properly set up for your machine.  If you are porting Kerberos to
a new machine, study these files carefully.

- util/makedepend/

This directory contains a program for automatically generating
dependencies for Makefiles.  It is used as part of the build process
to ensure that the right files are recompiled whenever any source
files are changed.  If the configuration parameter CppSourcesPresent
is defined in the appropriate `util/imake.includes/<machine>.macros'
file, `makedepend' will have a copy of the C preprocessor built into
it for speed.  This is not necessary and is not done in this release.
`Makedepend' is built automatically as part of the ``make world''
phase.

- util/patch/

This directory contain's Larry Wall's `patch' program, an
extraordinarily useful program for patching diffs into source code.
This program is not built automatically in this release; it is
provided simply for the convenience of people who do not have access
to the comp.sources.unix archives.
